In the last video, we have viewed a multiple linear regression model for the price change of SPY and find the model is not overfitted by comparing adjusted R squared and RMSE in train and test datasets. In this video, we will use predict price change of SPY as a trading signal and then perform a simple strategy. If the signal is positive, we were long. Otherwise, we were shot. First, we'll compute a position of our trading based on our predicted value of a response. Order equal to one if predicted value is positive or our prediction for price change is positive for opening today to opening tomorrow. Otherwise, order equal to negative one, which means we will sell one share if we had one share, and then short sell one share. Daily profit is computed in column is profit. Finally, we can compute a cumulative profit and sum it in the column of wealth. Total profit in this 1000 days is $170. Then, we can compare the performance of this strategy, which we call the signal-based strategy, with a passive strategy, which we call buy and hold strategy, which is to buy more shares of SPY initially and hold it for 1000 days. We can see from the plot, signal-based strategy outperforms buy-and-hold strategy. Similarly, we can view it as trading in test dataset, and the total profit is $130, a bit lower than that in train. Signal-based strategy also outperforms buy-and-hold strategy in the test data. The consistency of performance is very important. Otherwise, it is too risky to apply it in the future. Average daily return is a mirror we can make comparison in finance industry when they use a Sharpe ratio and maximum drawdown. Sharpe ratio measures excess return per unit of deviation in an investment asset or trading strategy named after William Sharpe. For example, daily Sharpe ratio is equal to the mean of excess return divided by standard deviation of excess return. Since there are about 252 trading days per year in US stock market, the yearly Sharpe ratio is equal to daily Sharpe ratio multiplied by square root of 252. To compute the Sharpe Ratio, we first need to revise wealth process by including initial investment which is the price of one share of SPY. We will use 'loc' version for return process. Yearly Sharpe ratio is 2.04 for training data and 1.184 for test data which is a much lower than that of the train. Maximum drawdown is a maximum percentage decline in the strategy from the historical peak profit at each point in time. We first compute drawdown, and then the maximum of all drawdowns in the trading period. Maximum drawdown is that risk of mirror for extreme loss of a strategy. To compute a drawdown, we need to compute peak of wealth process. At every time point, we can do it easily using data frame method, cummax. We find maximum drawdown in train and in test are very close. The result shows that if we apply this strategy in test set, the maximum loss from the peak is nine percent. From the mirror of a Sharpe ratio and maximum drawdown, we can tell that the performance of strategy is quite consistent in place of extreme loss. But the return per unit risk is not very consistent. In this topic, we have explored linear regression model mainly from perspectives of statistics. We then trained the application of a linear regression model in SPY trading. We conclude that the derived model is not overfitted and the performance of signal-based strategy is consistent in terms of risks of large loss. It is promising to further develop it into a profitable strategy, but they may cost a lot of efforts. Although the phase ratio of SPY trading is very low, the bid-ask spread is a hidden cause for this strategy and may eat up all profits. But it is not the objective of this course. In this course, we then traded that with adaptive learning skills in Python and the core concepts in statistics, we can explore the real finance problems by interacting with the real data.